Pursue Your Dream or Move On?

This case study deals with one young aspiring entrepreneur Sonia Headlee who is the co-founder and CEO of Inganci Tumatair.

She and her cofounder, Amanda Ibrahim, had bought land for a small farm, selected a processing factory, and successfully produced their first run of signature product : Nigerian-made tomato paste from locally grown fruit. But they misspelled the company name on their package and they had to sell their paste to competitors leaving them no other choice. This was a major setback for the company. Amanda was not with Sonia as she was working with a London -based consulting firm.

Sonia also had a job offer for an analyst role at LFM capital, a Nairobi based investment firm which focuses on funding small businesses across Africa. Nigeria was not a great place to start a business because of its poor infrastructure, failure in power grids. Sonia has contacted Abdulsalam Sani, the commissioner of agriculture in Kano. After talking to him, she had her hope raised for Inganci Tumatair. But one of her friends Tendai, insists her to join LFM capital. He explains to her how she could help other startups by joining the firm.

Ultimately, Sonia has three options. To pursue her startup full time or work for LFM capital full time or hire someone for Inganci Tumatair, and fund her startup and guide her employees using her pay check from LFM. Ultimately this is the toughest decision for an aspiring entrepreneur. Every startup is considered as a failure until its first breakthrough. The call is to be made on the basis of estimated time for the first breakthrough, competition in the field. But these predictions could miserably fail, so one should have a backup plan for everything.

We Need to Expand Our Definition of Entrepreneurship

In the view of the public, Entrepreneurs have been limited to young people who want to build companies that are changing the world. A more valuable concept of entrepreneur is may be someone who sees a value-generating opportunity and is willing to take a risk Capitalize on the opportunity; opportunity spotting, risk taking, and value are some of the elements of this.

New opportunities are created in a society that is constantly influenced by rapid changes in technology. Arising at a pace that is ever faster. But because of accelerating change and accelerating change, risk also increases, growing ambiguity. What we need are entrepreneurs who are ready and willing to compete with those who are Risks on the other hand and to see and harness the possibilities.

Lot of new technologies have emerged lately which have some serious breakthroughs when utilised or capitalised properly. This is an opportunity for entrepreneurs to make a really good life for themselves,by having a team of individuals designing and selling items that are tailored to the particular interests of small client groups.
The mentality of the 'employee,' that is, the notion of only turning up to do a predefined collection of tasks before you are instructed differently by leadership, just not cutting
It just anymore. In every part of the company, what we need are entrepreneurs, people who are
They are relentlessly focused on finding new ways to build even more value and are able to
Assume the risks needed to tackle those opportunities.

4 Entrepreneurship Lessons from a Nigerian Founder

In this article, a nigerian founder tells four most important aspects for a startup in frontier markets. A frontier market is a term for a type of developing country's market economy which is more developed than a least developed country's, but too small, risky, or illiquid to be generally classified as an emerging market economy.

He says that getting capital, finding talent, cultivating relationships, Scalability and Price are four important factors for a startup.

1.GETTING CAPITAL:
A great idea could be dead because of lack of capital especially in frontier markets. The nigerain entrepreneur explains how they made their startup possible by taking advantage of a 
a startup accelerator in New York. He advices aspiring entrepreneurs should get help from 
top-tier global startup accelerator in Europe, the U.S., or Asia.

2.FINDING GOOD TALENT:
The nigerain entrepreneur explains how they got people to work for them. In frontier markets it is very tough to find a talented person due to a shortage of top-quality tertiary education. It is even more difficult to find one with a Computer science background for a tech based startup. So he advises to use Linkedin, also refer to friends who could refer to others forming a chain of referrals, making finding the right one easy.

3.CULTIVATING RELATIONSHIPS:
He then explains how maintaining healthy relationships is very important to deal with regulatory challenges. He stresses the fact that soft skills like communication and adaptability are very crucial. He explains that Bureaucratic bottlenecks are common. Their startup had early reports of what's going to happen in new regulations and had enough time to react much easily. Thus 
cultivating relationships is very critical.

4.SCALABILITY AND PRICE:
Price is an extremely important factor in frontier markets. At Least during the initial phases of a startup. In frontier markets, scalability is very crucial, it must be well planned. He emphasises the fact that founders who are serious about frontier markets must go there themselves,talk to all the stakeholders and gain immersion in culture. Employing whatever is learnt from the discussion with stakeholders is crucial and once done right, sky's the limit.


Making the Leap to Entrepreneurship

In this article, Jaime Schmidt, founder and former CEO of Schmidt's naturals shares her experience she had with her startup, the initial struggle, and how she leaped into Entrepreneurship.

Though one might have a great business idea, leaving whatever he/she is currently doing and shifting full time to startup is a matter of great risk. But if one doesn’t take a leap, then we wouldn’t have seen so many successful entrepreneurs today. Jaime shares the following four aspects in the article.

1.MAKING COMMITMENT:
Entrepreneurship requires a very strong commitment. If we are pursuing something which we are not really into, we cannot progress much in that field. One has to be honest to himself before anyone else. Jaime explains how she was having a good life as a HR in a Chicago based company and decides to quit wanting more autonomy and creativity in her work. Finding one’s interest is not so simple at times. One has to roam around, trying different things. Jaime herself has discovered she had a passion for making and selling natural personal care products when she was 31 years old. But finding our intrinsic passion and being highly committed to it are very crucial.

2.DEVELOP SKILLS:
Once we found out our interest, we should explore every aspect of that field. Jaimes advices to 
volunteer in related organizations to gain hands-on experience. She encourages us to bounce ideas off  friends and family, who can serve as focus groups and sounding boards. Jaimes explains how she used to intern at herbs shops, even work as a cashier i a local market to observe how customers interact with her products. Also as the startup grows, one has to adapt and learn continuously. 

3.FUNDING THE BUSINESS:
A great idea could be dead because of lack of capital. Jaimes explains how she funded her startup on her own, doing side hustles. One needs a flowing fund for a startup to succeed, whether that’s through debt, equity, or revenue-based financing, or identifying a partner or cofounder, Also wrong funding could make the matters much worse. But a person should leap into it having a calculated risk.

4.INTEGRATING LIFE:
One should have cognitive flexibility. As an entrepreneur one should be able to spend quality time with friends and family. They should have a brief discussion regarding the business with friends and family but that shouldn't be an overkill. Jaime explains how she used to manage stuff in the early days of the startup with her new born son.

Entrepreneurship is definitely worth it for people who thrive for something different, having more control over their work. Everything we do has a risk associated with it. But we never know what could happen until we take a leap.

Keeping Your Business Plan Flexible

Founders of every business make a plan to evaluate future growth, to get funding and for various other reasons.But often things change a lot when compared to what is planned. Plans change because new products might be launched, also competitors emerge. Hence one needs a plan that is very flexible and could evolve with needs of the company.

FOCUS ON ASSETS:
For most businesses, people are the most important asset and that is the first thing many investors look for in a company. The goal is to find the right people because value is created when the right people seize the right opportunity. The main aim is to focus whatever you have that is of the most value.

DESCRIBE EXPERIMENTS:
Investors usually don't expect that the plan is a very good one right at the start. Rather, the plan should describe how you’ll evaluate the best way to make and/or sell your proposed product or service. Plan should show a series of structured experiments to see what the businesses next step would be. We don't need to explain how we do it but we should explain the outcome of the experiment.

INCLUDE RISK ASSESSMENT:
One way to keep the plan dynamic is to include a risk assessment. This should be followed by new businesses as well. We should focus on ability to deal with conditions as they prevail.

TRYING OUT FORMATS:
We should try different formats while preparing the plan and stick with one which suits our business the most.

REVISIT THE PLAN REGULARLY:
 One a plan is made, we should not leave it. We should keep on revisiting the plan so that we adapt to new changes and check if everything is going as planned.

The key takeaway from the article is that we should have a business plan which is very flexible and we should always revisit the plan at regular intervals.

The Power of an Entrepreneurial Mindset | TEDxLangleyED

The speaker(Bill Roche) once walks into a class and gives a business idea to the class. A student who seemed uninterested, soon was on track as Bill told that he could work on his own and keep the profit. Turns out that this boy made the highest profit of all though he was never into studies. This shows the mindset of the child. This brings out the question that can an entrepreneurial mindset  be nurtured. Bill says he believes that it can be done but from a small age itself, which is what happens in bill’s program.

Bill tells some products made by his students. They were made out of their artistic skills, some even did market research, took suggestions from people. The fact that kids were able to make their decisions, do what they made think was correct made them pretty productive.
This gave children freedom to make mistakes. Children understood what they could do when focussed.

Giving children such opportunities can make them realise that they can do a lot more things than they thought. They can discover their creativity and new potential. It helps children spark leadership.

The art of Innovation | TEDxBerkeley

He gives following 10 points on innovation.

1.Make Meaning : If we have an idea to change the world, we might earn money. But solely starting up with the idea of earning money might not help much.

2. Mantra : 3-5 words that describe why your business exists. 

3.Jump to the next curve: Think of future projections

4.Roll The dice : Innovation should be deep. Great product should be intelligent,complete,productive and elegant.

5. Don't worry , be happy : Don't worry right at the start, things get settled over time.

6. Let 100 flowers blossom : At the start of innovation, we think of some target users. But we might end up getting an unexpected group of users . Should let this expansion happen.

7.Polarise People : Great innovations polarise people.

8. Churn baby Churn : Keep on updating the product.

9. All the marketing needed : Focus on unique vs value chart.  Products should be unique and should have high value.

10. Perfect your pitch : As an innovator, one should have a great pitch. Have a custom intro for the pitch.

He says to have 10 slides and 20 mins for a good pitch. Also says to stay away from people who conflict things without thinking much about future.
